# Network-Analysis-of-Sjogren-s-Syndrome-Factors
## Data Preparation:
We created Sjogren’s syndrome dataset (SSD) with 2530 PubMed abstracts retrieved using keywords Sjogren’s syndrome and its variants. We tokenized these abstracts into a list of sentences. We have round 26000 sentences from this 2350 abstracts, we removed the unnecessary words from these sentences using Excel and made the dataset ready for analysis. The next step is identifying the causal sentences within these sentences to identify cause and effect factors related to Sjogren’s syndrome. For this we created a list of causal words and tried to filter out the sentences that are having these causal words, we used Python for this process. By this process we got around 21770 sentences out of those 26000 sentences as causal. The problem with this approach is the causal word might not be the root word in the sentence but still the sentence might return as causal sentence because it has the word. To overcome this problem, we ran a classification model on this 21770 sentence that gives a probability score whether the sentence is causal or not. Out of 21770 we have around 5655 sentences with probability of being causal sentences. We cleared the unnecessary data that is not required for our analysis and finalized the sentences. For Network Analysis we want to focus on a subset of sentences from these sentences. So, we identified sentences where the root causal word is ‘cause’, we used similar process we used for identifying the causal sentences before. We got around 420 sentences where the root causal word is cause. The next text is identifying cause and effect words within these sentences, we have manually identified cause and effect pairs within each sentence and created the final dataset for network analysis with two columns cause and effect where we have around 430 cause and effect pairs.
## Observations and Changes:
During this process of manually identifying cause and effect pairs we made some observations. We have observed that within a single sentence there are multiple pairs of cause and effects. For example, Tubulointerstitial nephritis is the most common renal disease in SS and may lead to renal tubular acidosis (RTA), which in turn may cause osteomalacia. In this sentence we have two cause and effect pairs, they are (‘Tubulointerstitial nephritis’,’ renal tubular acidosis (RTA)’) and (‘renal tubular acidosis (RTA)’,’ osteomalacia’) similarly we have multiple sentences with multiple cause and effect pairs we manually identified and separated them into two different pairs. One more issue we faced is we have words with different naming but same meaning. Example, for Sjogren’s syndrome we have Primary Sjogren’s Syndrome. SS, Sjogren’s Syndrome, pSS we identified them and gave them single name Sjogren’s Syndrome. We have identified all such words and renamed them to a single name. There are also pairs which seem to have same meaning but not, for example, Sjogren’s syndrome leads to ‘salivary gland impairment’ and ‘salivary gland inflammation’. We did all the necessary modifications and prepared the dataset for network analysis.
## Network Analysis:
For network analysis, we used Python library NetworkX for the network diagram creation and pyvis library to visualize the network graph diagram. We gave cause as the source and effect as the target and created the directed graph.
## Conclusion:
From the network diagram, we can observe that many edges coming from Sjogren’s syndrome node, clearly stating that it has multiple effects other than dry eyes and dry mouth.  We have directed edges which are directed from cause and its related effects. From the diagram, we can say that there are two types of factors that are associated with Sjogren’s syndrome and factors that are not associated with Sjogren’s syndrome. Factors that are associated with Sjogren’s syndrome are somehow connected to its node whereas we can see some nodes that are not connected Sjogren’s syndrome we need take close at these to know whether they are related to Sjogren’s syndrome or not.

